



Hi Chris, description of the functionality below.  Ignore the bit about:

"You can see there is an option to replace 'Very anxious' with a new category, where you choose the true percentage with the condition."

as it doesn't seem to be on the live web-page.  If it turns out that it is needed then we can revisit things after the core functionality is working. Given the ill feeling between Jim and yourself, I'd suggest that if you need any additional information from him then you ask me to get it for you. Alan


---------- Forwarded message ----------
Date: Thu, 11 Aug 2016 10:54:11 +0100
From: Jim Halsey <jim.halsey@ndph.ox.ac.uk>
To: Alan at Nexus <ayoung@nexus.ox.ac.uk>
Subject: RE: CTSU support for JamesLind website (fwd)

Hi Alan

Following up on your email last week, I'll try to explain what the James Lind randomiser program does.

Its purpose is to show that with a simple randomisation (ie unstratified) you can get relatively large imbalances within "risk" categories between treatment groups when the number randomised is fairly small, which might affect outcome comparisons. These imbalances diminish as the number randomised increases.

I've attached the web page linked to from the JLL website (JLL1.jpg), showing where the number rand is entered, with text explaining the demo.

NB: I'm not entirely sure this is the latest one (this was the one Chris could find a few weeks ago). I have a feeling we later added a button that gave you the option of making the trial 10 times larger than the one previously selected, but I guess this can be thought about once a version is up & running, once this feature is confirmed with Iain Chalmers.

The two word documents attacked show two examples of output displayed. The first shows an example with only 100 randomised, & we can see imbalances in percentages between treatments that can affect treatment comparisons, with the 2nd one showing the output when 100000 are randomised, which shows that the percentages balance out across rows (ie within category subgroups between treatments) as the number rand increases, as they tend to the "true" overall probabilities (see below).

The program works like this.

Read in the number to be randomised NRAND (between 1 & 100000)

For each of the NRAND:-

Assign to treatment A or treatment B (50% probability)

Assign to "Duration of health problem:"
   Long term (30% probability)
   More recent (70% probability)

Assign to "Severity of health problem:"
   Mild  (30% probability)
   Moderate  (45% probability)
   Severe  (25% probability)

Assign to "Age, in years"
   Under 15 (20% probability)
   15-34  (25% probability)
   35-64  (25% probability)
   65 & older  (30% probability)

Assign to "Condition: Very anxious?"
   Yes (5% probability)
   No (95% probability)

Once this has been completed the program works out the column percentages (ie percentages with each risk grouping within each treatment arm), & the numbers & corresponding percentages are displayed, as in tables of example outputs attached.

You can see there is an option to replace "Very anxious" with a new category, where you choose the true percentage with the condition.

If you want me to check any ongoing versions for functionality etc, &/or liase with Iain Chalmers or his programmer about the desired entry web page, that is fine with me.

Cheers, Jim
